---
layout: post
title: Multiple View Geometry in Computer Vision
comments : true
---

<script src="https://cdnjs.cloudflare.com/ajax/libs/mathjax/2.7.0/MathJax.js?config=TeX-AMS-MML_HTMLorMML" type="text/javascript"></script>

This post is about the overview of a course that I've taken (self study) by following the amazing book - **Multiple View Geometry in Computer Vision** by Hartley and Zisserman. I will include chapter-wise summaries as I go through the book. I am planning to complete this course during my semester break in December. The following is the tentative timeline.

- Nov 30 to Dec 20 : Complete the course from Cornell University on Computer vision along with following the above book.
- For the last week, the latest work in Neural Rendering:
    - Neural 3D Mesh Renderer
    - Differentiable Monte Carlo Ray Tracing through Edge Sampling

**Note**: All the images are courtesy of the book - "Multiple View Geometry in Computer Vision"

## Contents
- [Chapter 02: Projective Geometry and Transformations of 2D](#c02)


<a name='c02'></a>
## Chapter 02: Projective Geometry and Transformations of 2D

#### Projective Transformations

**Projective Transformation**: A planar projective transformation is a linear transformation on homogenous 3-vectors represented by a non-singular \\(3 \times 3\\) matrix. \\(x^\prime = Hx\\).

**Mapping between planes**: Consider two planes and points \\(x^\prime\\), \\(x\\) on these two planes. These points are generated  by a ray which meets these planes starting from a common point (the centre of projection). Assuming these points are represented using homogenous co-ordinates, these two points can be related by the relation \\(x^\prime = Hx\\) where \\(H\\) is a \\(3 \times 3\\) non-singular matrix.

There are eight independent ratios amongst the nine elements of \\(H\\) and hence it follows that a projective transformation has eight degrees of freedom. You would require four point correspondances to solve for \\(H\\). Simple applications is the removal of projective distortion from a perspective image of a plane. **Note**: You should compute different \\(H\\) for different planes. Check out the Figure 1. Note about the figure:
- Computation of H does not require knowledge of any of the camera's parameters or the pose of the plane.
- It's not always required to know 4 points (Check section: 2.7)

#### A hierarchy of transformations
